\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename helm-bugs.info
@settitle How to report Helm Bugs
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@set txicodequoteundirected
@set txicodequotebacktick
@set MAINTAINERSITE @uref{https://github.com/thierryvolpiatto webpage}
@set MAINTAINER Thierry Volpiatto
@set MAINTAINEREMAIL @email{thierry.volpiatto@gmail.com}
@set MAINTAINERCONTACT @uref{mailto:thierry.volpiatto@gmail.com,contact the maintainer}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs Add-ons
@direntry
* Report Helm Bugs: (helm-bugs). Report Helm Bugs.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title How to report Helm Bugs
@subtitle Release 3.6.2
@author The Helm Developers
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top How to report Helm Bugs
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Confirming bugs::
* Reporting bugs::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Confirming bugs

* @samp{emacs-helm.sh}: @samp{emacs-helmsh}. 
* @samp{emacs -Q}::

Reporting bugs

* Version info::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Confirming bugs
@chapter Confirming bugs

To confirm that a bug is, in fact, a Helm problem, it is important to
@emph{replicate the behavior with a minimal Emacs configuration}. This
precludes the possibility that the bug is caused by factors outside of
Helm.

The easiest and recommended way to do so is through the
@samp{emacs-helm.sh} script.

@menu
* @samp{emacs-helm.sh}: @samp{emacs-helmsh}. 
* @samp{emacs -Q}::
@end menu

@node @samp{emacs-helmsh}
@section @samp{emacs-helm.sh}

If your system supports it, you should run the @samp{emacs-helm.sh} script
to start an Emacs instance with minimal, Helm-specific configuration.

This is useful for debugging, and easier than starting Emacs with
@samp{emacs -Q} and configuring Helm from scratch.

If Helm is installed via MELPA, the @samp{emacs-helm.sh} script should be
located at @samp{~/.emacs.d/elpa/helm-<version>/emacs-helm.sh}.

Of course you have to cd to your helm directory and run the script
from there, an alternative is symlinking it to somewhere in your
@samp{PATH} e.g. ``~/bin'' (See note at bottom for those that have installed
from source with @samp{make}).

You can use the -h argument for help:

@example
$ helm -h
Usage: helm [-P@} Emacs path [-h@} help [--] EMACS ARGS
@end example


If your emacs binary is not in a standard place i.e. ``emacs'', you can
specify the path with ``-P''.

@code{Note}: If you have installed Helm from Git and used @samp{make && sudo
make install} you can run directly @samp{helm} at command line from any
place i.e. no need to cd to helm directory.

@node @samp{emacs -Q}
@section @samp{emacs -Q}

If you cannot run the @samp{emacs-helm.sh} script, be sure to reproduce the
problem with @samp{emacs -Q}, then installing Helm as described in the
Install section.

@node Reporting bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs

To report a bug, @uref{https://github.com/emacs-helm/helm/issues, open an
issue}. Be sure that you've confirmed the bug as described in the
previous section, and include relevant information for the maintainer
to identify the bug.

@menu
* Version info::
@end menu

@node Version info
@section Version info

When reporting bugs, it is important to include the Helm version
number, which can be found in the
@uref{https://github.com/emacs-helm/helm/blob/master/helm-pkg.el, helm-pkg.el}
file.

@bye